have you been thinking about joining a
toastmasters club but you're not quite
sure if it's the right fit for you
well i'm going to give you six reasons
why you should definitely consider
joining toastmasters and make sure you
stick around till the end because i'm
going to give you a bonus
tip of how you can get the most out of
your toastmasters experience
my name is wade patterson and i am
passionate about
impactful communication so before i jump
into those tips
make sure you hit that subscribe button
because i'm going to be giving
a ton more content about not only
toastmasters but communication
in general also hit that like button and
comment below and what i'm curious is
whether you're a toastmasters member if
you've been going
what do you like about it and if you
haven't gone to toastmasters yet
what's holding you back from going so
let's jump right into those six reasons
i think
you should consider joining toastmasters
by the way the club that i happen to go
to it's early at 6 45 a.m on thursdays
which means i have to wake up at 5
30 and sometimes it is tempting to hit
that snooze button but i know that
toastmasters is worthwhile
and reason number one why i think you
should consider going
is the reason i originally started going
to toastmasters
see in my job i was required to do
public speaking
about once per month in front of a group
of 60 people and when i started the job
i would be getting very nervous two
weeks
leading up to each speaking opportunity
so if you do
the math on that if i'm speaking once a
month in two weeks
before i'm starting to experience
anxiety
that is half of my life that i was
spending being stressed out about
public speaking and that is no way to
live your life
so when i originally went to
toastmasters my whole goal
was to reduce that stress and anxiety
associated with
public speaking what i can tell you is
after about three months of attending
toastmasters meetings on a weekly basis
that stress had gone down significantly
the reason for that is that you're
regularly practicing in front of a group
of people
standing up every single week you're
speaking in front of a group
and all of a sudden the idea of speaking
and standing up in front of crowds
it becomes a lot more natural and it's
easier
when you have to do it even in front of
big crowds
so that is the first reason i would
consider going to toastmasters
is if you're somebody who has this fear
of public speaking which by the way is
one of the top
fears that so many people have then
that is one reason is to reduce that
level of anxiety
the second reason you want to consider
joining a toastmasters club is to ditch
those
ums and oz from your speech
so every toastmasters meeting one person
is assigned
to be the ah counter and what that means
is their whole job for the meeting
is to listen very carefully to everyone
who speaks throughout the meeting
and record any ums or awes that they say
during their speech
and there are other words that they're
keeping an ear out for as well
such as so and but
there's a number of them and it's any of
these words that are used
to fill in what would otherwise be
silence because and you're going to
experience it right now as i speak
pausing is a very difficult thing to do
it feels uncomfortable when you are
public speaking in front of a group
it feels uncomfortable to allow
for pauses to happen but what you
realize over time
is that it's not so awkward for the
audience it feels really weird for you
but for the audience it actually
sounds less distracting and much more
normal
than if you're to uh say um
if you're to say um after every um
sentence
that is what gets distracting so the
reason number two which is a huge one
is to eliminate those ums and ahs from
your speech
reasons number three and four i'm
batching these ones together
they are body language and vocal variety
so here is the reason i am putting these
together communication
is broken down by three numbers 55
38 7. these three numbers of course add
up to 100 which represents 100
of communication but each of those
numbers is a smaller percentage of
communication
broken down by three different things so
the 55 represents
body language so 55 of the way
anything is communicated is through body
language
38 of the way a message is communicated
is through vocal tone and only seven
percent of the way a message is
communicated from one person to another
is the actual words that we say
now this might seem very odd that 93
of communication is not using the
specific words
but i'm going to give you an example of
how that works
hey everyone i am so excited to be doing
this youtube video
thank you so much for watching i love
doing this and i can't wait to produce
more videos
hey everyone i am
so excited to be doing this
this video for youtube um that there's
nothing else i'd rather be doing in the
world right now than
than this video thanks thanks so much
for watching really appreciate
it in those two examples my words were
very
similar but the meaning was completely
different in the first example
you probably really believed that i was
excited to be doing
the video but in the second example it
clearly wasn't something i was enjoying
and that goes to show that so much of
the way a message is communicated
is through the non-verbal so
toastmasters
it will help with the body language
every speech
is evaluated throughout toastmasters so
you constantly have somebody who is
watching
what you are doing with your body
language and can point out
tendencies that you might not even
realize that you're doing
and on the vocal side there are
opportunities
to get away from the monotone
by either raising your voice and being
very emphatic
or bringing your voice down and creating
that dramatic pause so there are
opportunities both ways with vocal
variety
so number three and four for the top
six reasons you should consider going to
toastmasters are improving your body
language and making the most of your
vocal variety
reason number five of why you should
consider joining toastmasters
is that you will become a better
listener
that sounds odd considering toastmasters
is all about
public speaking but what you actually
come to realize when you attend
toastmasters meetings
is that so many of the roles which are
evaluation roles so evaluating other
speakers
or even the general evaluator at the end
of the meeting evaluates
all of the roles that haven't already
been evaluated
if you take on one of these evaluation
rules it
forces you to really pay attention and
listen
carefully to everyone who's speaking and
be very observant
even if you take on a role such as the
grammarian which is all about
introducing
a word of the day and listening for
great uses of language
throughout the whole meeting you're
forced to listen very carefully
to people's speech so although
toastmasters is known for improving your
public speaking
you'll actually find after you attend a
few meetings
that you become a better listener as
well
and the final reason to join
toastmasters and this is especially for
those of you
who already go to toastmasters but maybe
you stopped going for a few months and
you're considering whether you should
start going back to meetings
well i like to think of toastmasters as
very similar
to going to the gym and doing exercise
so if you went to the gym back in 2015
so five years ago from the date that
this is recorded
and you did a bunch of workouts for an
entire year
but then you stopped going to the gym
from 2016 to 2020
well you're going to lose your progress
that you made
back five years ago right you're going
to lose muscle
you're probably going to be pretty out
of shape because
by that point your body had gotten out
of doing all of that
exercise the same thing is true for
toastmasters with public speaking skills
so if you went to a toastmasters club
five years ago
and you learned all of these great
things about how you speak
and how to really use your body language
effectively and use great vocal variety
that's fantastic but if you stop going
for
three or four years although some of
those skills may
remain you probably have lost a lot of
them and then when you go to speak in
front of a group it's going to feel
again a little uncomfortable because
toastmasters is all about the repetition
and doing this on a regular basis to
make
public speaking a very normal part of
your week
so the final reason that you should
consider joining a toastmasters club
is that gym mentality it's just like
exercising muscles
you've got to keep your public speaking
skills sharp now i promised that i'd
give you a bonus tip
about how you can choose a club that
really fits your personality
and that is the thing i would suggest if
you are in a metro area if you're in a
city
shop around check out multiple
toastmasters club before you commit
to joining one of them the reason is
this the club that i go to
it's pretty casual we have a lot of fun
at times somebody will yell something
out in the middle of a speech
because it's that light-hearted joking
and we have a lot of fun at the meetings
but not all clubs are like that some
clubs are very
formal and that might be your thing
maybe you're looking for a really
professional
very strict to the rules of toastmasters
club
and that's great those clubs exist but
if you're like me and you want to have a
little bit of fun and maybe go for
coffee
with some of the other toastmasters
members after the meeting
there are clubs that are a little more
social as well
so the final bonus tip is to shop around
before you commit to one
toastmasters club thank you so much for
taking the time
to watch this video about all of the
reasons why you should consider
joining toastmasters if you haven't
already done so hit that subscribe
button
i promise i'm going to be putting out a
ton of video content
on communications it's something i'm
passionate about
if you liked this video then hit that
like button as well it's really going to
help me out
and finally leave a comment if you're
already going to toastmasters
let me know what you love about
toastmasters and if you haven't gone yet
what's holding you back thanks so much i
hope everyone has a great day and we'll
see you next time